{\rtf1\mac\ansicpg10000\cocoartf102
{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset77 Palatino-Bold;\f1\froman\fcharset77 Palatino-Roman;\f2\froman\fcharset77 TimesNewRomanPSMT;
\f3\froman\fcharset77 TimesNewRomanPS-BoldMT;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\paperw11900\paperh16840\margl1275\margr1275\margb1134\margt1418\vieww17240\viewh12400\viewkind1\viewscale100
\deftab708
\pard\pardeftab708\qc

\f0\b\fs28 \cf0 Steinberg ASIO  SDK Licensing Agreement\
\pard\pardeftab708\qc

\f1\b0\fs24 \cf0 (Version \'d32.1 \'d0 April 2005\'d3)\
\pard\tx720\tx9440\pardeftab708\li20\ri-1\ql\qnatural

\fs20 \cf0 \
\pard\tx720\tx9440\pardeftab708\li20\ri-1\ql\qnatural

\fs24 \cf0 between
\f0\b \
\
\pard\tx720\tx9440\pardeftab708\li20\ri-1\qc
\cf0 STEINBERG MEDIA TECHNOLOGIES GMBH\
\pard\tx720\tx9440\pardeftab708\li20\ri-1\ql\qnatural
\cf0 \
\pard\tx720\tx9440\pardeftab708\li20\ri-1\ql\qnatural

\f1\b0 \cf0 residing at \
\pard\tx720\tx9440\pardeftab708\li20\ri-1\ql\qnatural

\f0\b \cf0 \
\pard\tx720\tx9440\pardeftab708\li20\ri-1\ql\qnatural

\f1\b0 \cf0 Neuer Hoeltigbaum 22-32, \
22143 Hamburg\
GERMANY\
\pard\tx720\tx9440\pardeftab708\li20\ri-1\qr
\cf0 - Steinberg -\
\pard\tx720\tx9440\pardeftab708\li20\ri-1\ql\qnatural

\f0\b \cf0 and\
\pard\tx720\tx9440\pardeftab708\ri-1\ql\qnatural

\f1\b0 \cf0 \
\pard\tx720\tx9440\pardeftab708\li20\ri-1\qc
\cf0 ..........................................\
\pard\tx720\tx9440\pardeftab708\ri-1\ql\qnatural

\f0\b \cf0 \
\pard\tx720\tx9440\pardeftab708\li20\ri-1\ql\qnatural

\f1\b0 \cf0 residing at\
\pard\tx720\tx9440\pardeftab708\li20\ri-1\ql\qnatural

\fs28 \cf0 ...............................\
...............................\
...............................\
\pard\tx720\tx9440\pardeftab708\li20\ri-1\qr

\fs24 \cf0 - Licensee- \
\pard\tx709\pardeftab708\ql\qnatural

\f0\b \cf0 \
\pard\tx709\pardeftab708\li709\fi-709\ql\qnatural
\cf0 \
\'a4 1	Object of the Agreement\
\pard\tx709\pardeftab708\li709\fi-709\ql\qnatural

\f1\b0 \cf0 \
\pard\tx705\pardeftab708\li705\fi-705\ql\qnatural
\cf0 The object of this agreement consists of the Steinberg ASIO (Audio Stream I/O) Software Development Kit 
\f0\b \ul version 2.1,
\f1\b0 \ulnone  comprising of documentation, example code, and several ASIO examples. These are described hereinafter as the 
\f0\b "Licensed Software Developer Kit"
\f1\b0 . \
\pard\tx709\pardeftab708\li709\fi-709\ql\qnatural
\cf0 2.	Steinberg is the holder of all copyrights, rights of ownership, and other rights concerning the Licensed Software Developer Kit.\uc0\u8232 \
\pard\tx709\pardeftab708\li709\fi-709\ri-1\ql\qnatural
\cf0 3.	The 
\f0\b Licensed Software Developer Kit
\f1\b0  contains information about\
\pard\tx1068\tx9440\pardeftab708\li1068\fi-360\ri-1\ql\qnatural
\cf0 how to develop an ASIO Driver, and \
how to extend an application so that it can host ASIO  Drivers, that are developed under Steinberg\'d5s ASIO Specification, either by Steinberg or any Third-Parties.\
\pard\tx9440\pardeftab708\li708\ri-1\ql\qnatural
\cf0 \
Currently the following computer platforms are supported:\
\pard\tx9440\pardeftab708\li708\ri-1\qj
\cf0 - Apple Macintosh PPC Computers under the Mac OS, \
- Windows 95, Windows 98, and NT Systems\
\pard\tx709\pardeftab708\ql\qnatural

\f0\b \cf0 \
\page \'a4 2	Granting of Rights	\
\pard\pardeftab708\ql\qnatural
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab708\li709\fi-709\ql\qnatural

\f1\b0 \cf0 1.	Steinberg hereby grants to the Licensee a non-exclusive, worldwide, nontransferable license during the term of this agreement to use the ASIO  Interface Technology  solely:\
\pard\tx1428\pardeftab708\li1428\fi-720\ql\qnatural
\cf0 for the development of ASIO Drivers and/or for the development of an application that can host ASIO Drivers, \
\pard\pardeftab708\li708\ql\qnatural
\cf0 \
\pard\tx1428\pardeftab708\li1428\fi-720\ql\qnatural
\cf0 to publish a product under his own name that is using parts or all of the Licensed Software Developer Kit.\
\pard\tx720\tx9440\pardeftab708\ri-1\ql\qnatural

\f2\fs20 \cf0 \
\pard\tx705\tx9440\pardeftab708\li705\fi-705\ri-1\ql\qnatural

\f1\fs24 \cf0 The Licensee has no permission to sell, licence, give-away and/or distribute
\f2  
\f1 the ASIO  Interface technology or parts of it in anyway, on any medium, including the Internet, to any other person, including sub-licensors of the Licensee or companies where the Licensee has any involvement. This includes re-working this specification, or reverse-engineering any products based upon this specification. \
\pard\tx9440\pardeftab708\ri-1\ql\qnatural
\cf0 \
\pard\tx705\tx9440\pardeftab708\li705\fi-705\ri-1\ql\qnatural
\cf0 The Licensee recognises the value of the goodwill associated with the mark ASOP Technology and acknowledges that such goodwill exclusively belongs to the benefit of Steinberg and belongs to Steinberg. The Licensee warrants that it will not use the mark ASIO Technology on promotional merchandise , with the exception of demo versions of any of his product making use of this SDK. The Licensee warrants that it will not use the mark ASIO Technology on  or in connection with products obscene, pornographic, excessively violent, or otherwise in poor taste. \
\pard\tx9440\pardeftab708\ri-1\ql\qnatural
\cf0 \
\pard\tx705\tx9440\pardeftab708\li705\fi-705\ri-1\ql\qnatural
\cf0 If the Licensee is developing a product, that is using parts or all of the Licensed Software Developer Kit, and this product is not published under his own name but will be published by another company, the Licensee is under the obligation to inform the publisher of the resulting product, that he too must be a party to this Licensing Agreement. The publisher has to completely agree with the ASIO SDK Licensing Agreement. If the publisher is not in agreement with these conditions, the publisher is not allowed to distribute this product which is using parts or all of the Licensed Software Developer Kit. \
\pard\tx9440\pardeftab708\ri-1\ql\qnatural
\cf0 \
\pard\tx705\tx9440\pardeftab708\li705\fi-705\ri-1\ql\qnatural
\cf0 If the Licensee is planning to publish a product, that is using parts or all of the Licensed Software Developer Kit, the Licensee is under the obligation to inform Steinberg about it by sending the signed \'d4Steinberg ASIO SDK Licensing Agreement\'d5 to Steinberg, either by mail, or by fax. \
\pard\tx9440\pardeftab708\ri-1\qj
\cf0 \
\pard\tx720\tx9440\pardeftab708\ri-1\ql\qnatural

\f3\b\fs20 \cf0 \
\pard\tx709\pardeftab708\ql\qnatural

\f0\fs24 \cf0 \
\
\page \'a4 3	Use Of Trademarks\
\pard\pardeftab708\ql\qnatural

\f2\b0\fs20 \cf0 \
\pard\tx9440\pardeftab708\li705\ri-1\ql\qnatural

\f1\fs24 \cf0 If the Licensee is publishing a product under his own name that is using parts or all of the Licensed Software Developer Kit, the Licensee  shall be under an obligation to refer to Steinberg\'d5s copyrights and trademarks in the following way:\
\
a) Steinberg\'d5s copyright notice should be included in the documentation, regardless of the media used to supply the documentation. \
Copyright notice: \'d3ASIO is a trademark of Steinberg Media Technologies GmbH\'d3\
b) The ASIO Logo has to appear on packages and promotional material. \
\pard\tx709\tx9440\pardeftab708\li709\ri-1\ql\qnatural
\cf0 The ASIO Logo artwork and usage guidelines are part of the 
\f0\b "Licensed Software Developer Kit" 
\f1\b0 and
\f0\b  
\f1\b0 are supplied by Steinberg in digital format. Steinberg makes the ASIO Logo Artwork available on Steinberg\'d5s ftp site. \
\pard\tx9440\pardeftab708\li705\ri-1\ql\qnatural
\cf0 \
c) In the \'d4about box\'d5 of the product in one of the following formats:\
\pard\tx993\pardeftab708\ri-1\ql\qnatural
\cf0 	- ASIO Technology by Steinberg, \
\pard\tx9440\pardeftab708\li993\ri-1\ql\qnatural
\cf0 - ASIO Interface Technology by Steinberg Media Technologies GmbH. \
\pard\tx720\tx9440\pardeftab708\ri-1\ql\qnatural
\cf0 \
\
\pard\tx709\tx9440\pardeftab708\ri-1\ql\qnatural

\f0\b \cf0 \'a4 4	Fees and Royalties\
\pard\tx709\tx9440\pardeftab708\fi-8\ri-1\ql\qnatural

\f1\b0 \cf0 \
\pard\tx640\tx9440\pardeftab708\li709\fi-709\ri-1\ql\qnatural
\cf0 		The Licensee shall not obligated to pay to Steinberg any fees or royalties with respect to the ASIO Interface technology. \
\pard\pardeftab708\ql\qnatural
\cf0 \uc0\u8232 \
\pard\tx709\pardeftab708\ql\qnatural

\f0\b \cf0 \'a4 5	Liability for Consequential Damages\
\pard\tx709\pardeftab708\li708\ql\qnatural

\f1\b0 \cf0 \uc0\u8232 Steinberg will not be liable for any consequential, special, incidental, direct or indirect damages of any kind, including the loss of data, damage of data-storage-devices, or any loss or damage to other programs being used, arising out of the use of the Licensed Software Developer Kit or any software developed by the Licensee, including any future up-dates.\u8232 \u8232 \
\pard\pardeftab708\ql\qnatural

\f0\b \cf0 \'a4 6	Product Warranty
\f1\b0 \
\
\pard\tx720\tx9440\pardeftab708\li20\ri-1\qj
\cf0 1.	Steinberg licences the ASIO Interface Technology on an "AS IS" basis.\
\pard\tx720\tx9440\pardeftab708\li720\ri-1\qj
\cf0 Steinberg makes no warranties, express or implied, including without limitation the implied warranties of merchantability and fitness for a particular purpose, regarding the ASIO Interface technology or operation and use in combination with the Licensee\'d5s program. Neither the Licensee, its employees, agents, or Distributors have any right to make any other representation, warranty or promise with respect to the ASIO Interface technology.\
\pard\tx720\tx9440\pardeftab708\li729\ri-1\ql\qnatural
\cf0 \
\pard\tx720\tx9440\pardeftab708\ri-1\qj
\cf0 2.	In no event shall Steinberg be liable for incidental or consequential damages\
\pard\tx720\tx9440\pardeftab708\li720\ri-1\qj
\cf0 arising from the use, or distribution of the ASIO Interface technology by the Licensee, whether theory of contract, product liability or otherwise. \
\pard\tx720\tx9440\pardeftab708\li729\ri-1\ql\qnatural
\cf0 All  claims for indemnification for losses by the Licensee itself or by third parties shall be excluded.\
\pard\pardeftab708\li709\fi-709\ql\qnatural
\cf0 \
3.	Steinberg may release improved versions of the Licensed Software Developer Kit but offers no commitment whatsoever that such releases will occur at anytime or for anybody. \
\pard\pardeftab708\ql\qnatural
\cf0 \
\
\pard\pardeftab708\ql\qnatural

\f0\b \cf0 \'a4 7	Infringement\
\
\pard\pardeftab708\li708\qj

\f1\b0 \cf0 Steinberg represents and warrants that, as of the date of this Agreement, it is not aware of any claim or action alleging that ASIO, the ASIO Interface Technology, or the content of the 
\f0\b Licensed Software Developer Kit 
\f1\b0 infringes any third party intellectual property right. Steinberg, however, disclaims any obligation of defense or indemnify of the Licensee or its customer  with respect to any such claim or action, or otherwise arising out of this agreement. Steinberg shall have no liability arising out of any such actual or alleged intellectual property infringement.\
The Licensee, however, shall promptly notify Steinberg, in writing, of each such infringement claim of which the Licensee becomes aware.\
\pard\pardeftab708\ql\qnatural
\cf0   \
\pard\tx720\tx9440\pardeftab708\li20\ri-1\ql\qnatural

\f0\b \cf0 \
\pard\tx720\tx9440\pardeftab708\fi-20\ri-1\ql\qnatural
\cf0 \'a4 8	RELATIONSHIP BETWEEN THE TWO PARTIES\
\pard\tx720\tx9440\pardeftab708\li720\ri-1\qj

\f1\b0 \cf0 \
Nothing stated in this Agreement will be construed as creating the relationships of joint ventures, partners, principal, agent or whatsoever. The Licensee shall not be entitled to represent Steinberg or to make statements on its behalf.\
\pard\tx720\tx9440\pardeftab708\ri-1\qj
\cf0 \
\
\pard\tx720\tx9440\pardeftab708\ri-1\ql\qnatural

\f0\b \cf0 \'a4 9	TERM OF THE AGREEMENT\
\pard\tx720\tx9440\pardeftab708\li20\ri-1\ql\qnatural
\cf0  \
\pard\tx720\tx9440\pardeftab708\li20\ri-1\ql\qnatural

\f1\b0 \cf0 1.	The Agreement shall run for a unlimited period.\
\pard\tx720\tx9440\pardeftab708\ri-1\ql\qnatural
\cf0 \
\pard\tx720\tx9440\pardeftab708\ri-1\qj
\cf0 2.	If the Licensee is in breach of any of its obligations set out in this agreement,\
\pard\tx720\tx9440\pardeftab708\li720\ri-1\qj
\cf0 Steinberg shall be entitled to terminate this agreement immediately in writing and inform the Licensee verbally about it. In such a case, this license and all the rights granted to the Licensee herein shall immediately cease.
\f0\b \
\pard\pardeftab708\ql\qnatural

\f1\b0 \cf0 \uc0\u8232 \
\pard\tx709\pardeftab708\ql\qnatural

\f0\b \cf0 \'a4 10	
\f3 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw-3
Final provisions
\f1\b0\fs20 \kerning0\expnd0\expndtw0 \uc0\u8232 \
\pard\tx705\pardeftab708\li705\fi-705\ql\qnatural

\fs24 \cf0 This agreement and the interpretation thereof
\fs20  
\fs24 shall be exclusively subject to the laws of the Federal Republic of Germany. \
\pard\pardeftab708\ql\qnatural
\cf0 \
\pard\tx705\pardeftab708\li705\fi-705\ql\qnatural
\cf0 The Licensee declares himself to be in agreement with the use of any personal data obtained through this licensing relationship by Steinberg for its own company purposes, and for the purposes of its Company Group, within the meaning of the relevant Data Protection laws. \
\pard\pardeftab708\qj
\cf0 \
\pard\tx709\pardeftab708\li705\fi-705\qj
\cf0 If any one stipulation of this License contract should be or become invalid, completely or in part, this shall not affect the validity of the remaining stipulations. The parties undertake instead to replace the invalid stipulations with a valid regulation which comes as closely as possible to the purpose originally intended.\
\pard\pardeftab708\qj
\cf0 \
\pard\tx705\tx9440\pardeftab708\li705\fi-705\ri-1\qj
\cf0 Amendments, supplements and notices of termination of this agreement must be made in writing. The rescission of this agreement or an alteration to the requirement of the written form must also be made in writing. Subsidiary agreements have not been concluded.\
\pard\tx9440\pardeftab708\ri-1\qj
\cf0 \
\pard\tx720\tx9440\pardeftab708\li705\fi-705\ri-1\qj
\cf0 Place of jurisdiction for all disputes is Hamburg. In addition, each party can bring an action against the other party at the general place of jurisdiction of the other party.\
\pard\tx9440\pardeftab708\ri-1\qj
\cf0 \
\pard\tx720\tx9440\pardeftab708\li705\fi-705\ri-1\qj
\cf0 This agreement does not require a specific form (e.g. recording by a notary). \
\pard\pardeftab708\qj
\cf0 \
\
\pard\tx720\tx9440\pardeftab708\ri-1\ql\qnatural

\fs20 \cf0 \
\pard\tx720\tx9440\pardeftab708\li20\ri-1\ql\qnatural

\f0\b\fs24 \cf0 \
\
\
\
\
Steinberg \
\pard\tx720\tx9440\pardeftab708\li20\ri-1\ql\qnatural

\f1\b0 \cf0 Media Technologies GmbH \
\
\pard\tx720\tx2835\tx9440\pardeftab708\li20\ri-1\ql\qnatural
\cf0 By: 		.......................................... \
Printed Signature	.......................................... \
Title		.......................................... \
Date executed	.......................................... \
\
\
\pard\tx720\tx2835\tx9440\pardeftab708\li20\ri-1\ql\qnatural

\f0\b \cf0 - Licensee -\
\pard\tx720\tx2835\tx9440\pardeftab708\li20\ri-1\ql\qnatural

\f1\b0 \cf0 \
By: 		.......................................... \
Printed Signature	.......................................... \
Title		.......................................... \
Date executed	.......................................... \
\pard\tx720\tx9440\pardeftab708\li20\ri-1\ql\qnatural

\fs20 \cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab708\ri-1\ql\qnatural

\fs24 \cf0 \
\page \pard\pardeftab708\ri-1\ql\qnatural

\f0\b \cf0 -Licensee-  Technical Contact
\fs20 \
\
\pard\tx2835\pardeftab708\ri-1\ql\qnatural

\f1\b0\fs24 \cf0 Name:	-------------------------------------------------------\
\pard\pardeftab708\ri-1\ql\qnatural
\cf0 \
\
\pard\tx2835\pardeftab708\ri-1\ql\qnatural
\cf0 Address:	-------------------------------------------------------\
\pard\pardeftab708\ri-1\ql\qnatural
\cf0 \
\
\pard\tx2835\pardeftab708\ri-1\ql\qnatural
\cf0 Phone:	-------------------------------------------------------\
\pard\pardeftab708\ri-1\ql\qnatural
\cf0 \
\
\pard\tx2835\pardeftab708\ri-1\ql\qnatural
\cf0 Fax:	-------------------------------------------------------\
\pard\pardeftab708\ri-1\ql\qnatural
\cf0 \
\
\pard\tx2835\pardeftab708\ri-1\ql\qnatural
\cf0 Email:	-------------------------------------------------------\
\pard\pardeftab708\ri-1\ql\qnatural
\cf0 \
\pard\tx720\tx9440\pardeftab708\li20\ri-1\ql\qnatural

\fs20 \cf0 \
\pard\tx709\pardeftab708\qj

\fs24 \cf0 \
}